# SNHU-CS-465-Full-Stack-Development-1

<h2><p>Architecture</p></h2>
Express is used for building customer facing HTML web pages, it is a NodeJS framework for server-side web applications using RESTful APIs. Originally, we built a web application using Express for the server-side rendering of the application, the user would navigate the application to which the input would be read, and the pages updated on the server before displaying to the user.  Eventually we moved to the Angular framework to convert the application to a single-page application (SPA) where HTML is cached client-side and only uses the RESTful API for data updates. JavaScript, a scripting language that enables you to create content that is dynamically updated, was used as the programming language because it helps reduce the load on the server, is easy to use, and is the most popular language for web-development.
The biggest advantage to using an SPA is speed. In multi-page applications, requests require enormous amounts of data to be transmitted because the application includes more than one page and must reload these pages each time, instead of loading entirely new pages from a server an SPA has the user continually interacting with it by rewriting the current page dynamically. Additional advantages include seamless user experience, the ability to build feature rich applications, and less bandwidth use. 
While SQL is valued for ensuring data validity, NoSQL is good when it's more important that the availability of big data is fast. If scale is a factor for a company because of changing requirements, then NoSQL is also a good choice. It is easy-to-use, flexible and offers high performance.

<h2><p></p>Functionality</p></h2>
The JSON format is syntactically like the code for creating JavaScript objects. Because of this, a JavaScript program can easily convert JSON data into JavaScript objects. Since the format is text only, JSON data can easily be sent between computers, and used by any programming language. JSON is a data interchange format used for transferring data between front end and back end.
In the earliest weeks of this class, we made a header and footer file that would handle all the information that were in these sections of the HTML, this helped reduce the amount of code we needed because each page would loop through these files rather than having the need for the code be present on each of the HTML pages. Another example was moving from Express to an SPA with Angular, this allowed us to move the web application data from the server side to the client side, which would increase the loading speeds of the pages.

<h2><p>Testing</p></h2>
It is always good to have error handling in your code so that you can deduce when something goes wrong, I also found that keeping an eye on PowerShell while Express was running allowed me to check if my GET requests were working, which brings me to the next point. The methods such as GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE are used to interact with the database.  It allows a user to manipulate the data from the application without having to go directly into the database, but for this to occur we need to talk about endpoints. Endpoints are a specific location within an API that accepts requests and sends back responses. This was tested using Postman which simplifies each step of the API lifecycle so you can create better APIs. Finally, we added security to the application which allowed the methods to be protected from someone who may not have access to these methods, this was also tested through Postman.

<h2><p>Reflection</p></h2>
I started my journey at SNHU with the idea that I wanted to be a full stack developer and after taking this course I realize now that there is much larger hill to climb than I originally thought. I do hope to continue my learning about front end development after graduating as I still have much to learn and understand.  This class was the first time I used multiple frameworks and learned how to use Git from the PowerShell, both skill which are critical in knowing in today’s market.
